{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Week 2\par
\par
1.Which is the purpose of a variable within Python?\par
Answer: To store data and retrieve that data using some name.\par
\par
2.Write a simple Python statement that creates and assigns a value of 3.142 to a variable called \lquote pi\rquote\par
Answer:\par
pi = 3.142\par
print(pi)\par
\par
3.Which of the following is NOT a valid name for a variable within Python?\par
total result question? name_1\par
Answer: Question? Isn\rquote t a valid name as it contains special characters.\par
\par
4.Following the execution of the code below, what will be stored in the variable 'age'?\par
age = 10 + 20\par
age = age + 5 \par
Answer: The value stored would be 35\par
\par
\par
5.In the answer box below write the exact output that would be displayed if the following statement was executed (assuming age has been created as in the previous question):\par
print("The age value is",age)\par
The age value is 35\par
\par
6.Which of the following is an example of an Augmented Assignment in Python?\par
total = 20\par
total = total +5 total *= 100 total  = max\par
Answer:\par
The line total *= 100 is the augmented assignment.\par
\par
7.Which of the following is an example of an integer type variable?\par
result = "xyz" result = 20 result = 20.5 result = False \par
Answer:\par
The result = 20 is an  example of integer type variable\par
\par
_________________________________________________________________________\par
8.What are the only two legal values of a boolean type variable?\par
Answer:\par
0 and 1 \par
\par
9.Following the execution of the code below, what will be the data-type of the variable 'average'?\par
average = total / count \par
Answer: Float\par
\par
10.Following the execution of the code below, what will be the data-type of the variable 'message'? message = "hello there!"\par
 Answer: It will be string.\par
\par
11.What determines the current data-type of a variable?\par
Answer: The value it holds.\par
\par
12.What is the purpose of the built-in type() function?\par
Answer: It\rquote s purpose is to find the data type of the variable assigned.\par
\par
13.What would be the output following execution of the following code?\par
type(10.2) \par
Answer:\par
It would be a float.\par
\par
14.Does the Python language support Dynamic Typing, or Static Typing?\par
Answer:\par
It supports Dynamic Typing.\par
\par
15.Which of the following is an example of a function call?\par
answer = 10 \par
print(answer) \par
total *= 10 \par
10 + 20\par
 \par
Answer: Print(answer) is a function call.\par
\par
16.What is the name given to the values that are passed to a function within the parentheses?\par
Answer: Parameters or arguements\par
 \par
17.What is the purpose of the built-in input() function?\par
Answer: Its purpose is to take input values from the user.\par
 \par
18.What is the data-type of the value returned by the input() function?\par
Answer:String\par
 \par
19.Use the Python interpreter to input a small Python program that prints your name and address on the screen. Once this works type the program in the answer box below.\par
Answer:\par
print("My name is Prashiddha Joshi")\par
print("I live in Bajrabarahi,Godawari,Lalitpur")\par
 \par
20.Within the answer box below write a small Python program, that when run, would print the following message including the double quotes -\par
Hello, is your name "Bwian"?\par
Answer:print('Hello, is your name "Bwian"?')\par
 \par
Now write a second small Python program, that when run, would print the following message including the single quotes -\par
Or is your name 'Woger'?\par
Answer:print("Or is your name 'Woger'?")\par
 \par
Within the answer box below write a small Python program, that when run, uses escape sequences to print the following text exactly.\par
This is a string containing a backslash (\\),     a single quote ('), a double quote (")     and is split across multiple lines\par
print("This is a string containing a backslash (\\),\\n\\t a single quote ('), a double quote (\\")\\n\\t and is split across multiple lines")\par
\par
Within the answer box below write a small Python program, that when run, uses triple quotes to print the following text exactly.\par
This is a string containing a backslash (\\),     a single quote ('), a double quote (")     and is split across multiple lines \par
Answer: \par
print("""\par
This is a string containing a backslash (\\\\),\par
     a single quote ('), a double quote (\\")\par
     and is split across multiple lines\par
""")\par
\par
Use the Python interpreter to input a small Python program that asks the user to input a temperature in fahrenheit. Once the value has been input, display a message that shows the same temperature in celsius. You may have to do some research in order to find out the conversion method. Once this works, type the program in the answer box below.\par
Answer:\par
Temperature=input(\ldblquote Enter the temperature in fahrenheit:\rdblquote )\par
celsius = (fahrenheit - 32) * 5/9\par
print(\ldblquote The temperature fahrenheit\rdblquote , fahrenheit \ldblquote in celsius is:\rdblquote ,celsius)\par
\par
\par
Within the answer box below write a small Python program that asks the user to enter two values. Store these in variables called 'a' and 'b' respectively.\par
Answer:\par
a=int(input(\ldblquote Enter a value:\rdblquote ))\par
b=int(input(\ldblquote Enter a value:\rdblquote ))\par
\par
Once the values have been input use three calls to the print() function to show output such as the following (in this example the user entered 10.2 and 18.3) -\par
The value 'a' was 10.2 and the value 'b' was 18.3\par
The sum of 'a' and 'b' is 28.5 The product of 'a' and 'b' is 186.66 Answer:\par
a=int(input("Enter a value:"))\par
b=int(input("Enter a value:"))\par
print("The value a was:",a)\par
print("The value b was:",b)\par
print("The sum of a and b is:",a+b)\par
print("The product of a and b is:",a*b)\par
\par
Python includes a built-in function called max(). When this is called with multiple argument values it returns the largest of the given arguments. e.g.\par
max(20, 50, 30)  # this would return 50\par
Within the answer box below write a small program that asks the user to input three values. Store these in variables (the names are up to you) then use the max() function to display the largest of the input values.\par
Answer:\par
num1 = int(input("Enter any value: "))\par
num2 = int(input("Enter any value: "))\par
num3 = int(input("Enter any value: "))\par
largest_num = max(num1, num2, num3)\par
print("The largest value entered is:", largest_num)\par
\par
 \par
Using the Python interpreter execute your code, then examine the output generated when the input the values are 'hello', 'welcome', and 'bye'\par
Does the program still show the maximum value? If not, what does it show?\par
Answer:No the max() function doesnt determine the largest among the string values.\par
 \par
 \par
Given the following definition:\par
name = "Black Knight"\par
What would each of the following Python statements display?\par
\par
print( name[0] ) Answer:B\par
print( name[4] ) Answer: K\par
print( name[-1] ) Answer:T\par
print( name[-2] ) Answer:H\par
print( name[2:5] ) Answer:ACK\par
print( name[6:] ) Answer:KNIGHT\par
print( name[:5] ) Answer:BLACK\par
print( name[:] )  Answer:BLACK KNIGHT\par
 \par
Which of the following creates a variable containing a List?\par
names = "Terry" \par
names = 10 \par
names = [ "Mark", "Jon", "Amanda", "Edward", "Sally" ] names = "Mark", "Jon", "Amanda"]\par
Answer: This one is the list names = [ "Mark", "Jon", "Amanda", "Edward", "Sally" ] names = "Mark", "Jon", "Amanda"]\par
\par
 \par
Is the following a valid List, even though it contains values based on different data-types?\par
values = [10.2, "Jon", False, "Edward", True ] \par
Answer: Yes it is a list as list supports every data types.\par
 \par
If a value is mutable, can it be modified after it has been created?\par
Answer: Yes if it is mutable it can be modified like list.\par
 \par
What term is used to describe a value that cannot be changed once it has been created?\par
Answer: Immutable values\par
 \par
Is a List mutable or immutable?\par
Answer: It is mutable.\par
 \par
Is a String mutable or immutable?\par
Answer: It is immutable.\par
\par
Given the following definition -\par
names = ["Terry", "John", "Michael", "Eric", "Terry", "Graham"]\par
What would each of the following Python statements display?\par
print( names[2] ) \par
Answer: Micheal\par
 \par
print( names[-2] )\par
Answer:Terry\par
 \par
print( names[0:3] ) \par
Answer:['Terry', 'John', 'Michael']\par
 \par
names = names + "Brian" \par
print( names )\par
Answer: Cant concanate a string with list.\par
 \par
names[0:1] = ["Mark", "Jon"] print( names ) \par
Answer:['Mark', 'Jon', 'John', 'Michael', 'Eric', 'Terry', 'Graham']\par
 \par
What built-in function within Python can be used to find out how many elements are contained within a string or list?\par
Answer:len() function can be used to find out how many elemets are contained.\par
 \par
}
 